In an era where e-commerce demands are soaring, the quest for an immersive and efficient shopping experience is more relevant than ever. This paper introduces a cutting-edge virtual reality based automatic online shopping system that offers real-life shopping experience in a virtual platform via real-time product visualization and robot-based automated product collection. Central to our system is a lowcost, 5-degree-of-freedom (DOF) robotic arm mounted on a linefollowing robot, equipped with basic Wi-Fi connection and an online user-friendly shopping platform. Customers can browse a fully designed e-commerce website where products are listed and view a live video feed via an ESP32 camera, allowing them to virtually inspect and select products with precision. Unlike current solutions, our platform incorporates a robust closed loop feedback system utilizing force-measuring sensors to ensure secure and precise material gripping, proper weight lifting, and handling of products, addressing issues related to varying weights, shapes, and sizes. The system's open-source software, requiring no paid licenses, enhances its accessibility and cost-effectiveness. Rigorous testing across diverse environments and product types demonstrated the system's ability to deliver accurate, reliable performance, even under challenging conditions. By bridging the gap between digital and physical shopping experiences, our solution not only streamlines the process but also elevates it with superior virtual reality integration, add secured communication, and seamless billing satisfaction, low cost operation, setting a new benchmark in the realm of online retail.


This Paper has been accepted on ICICT 2024(https://icict.buet.ac.bd/). 
Camera-Ready Paper.pdf is the final paper. The video demonstration of the working project is available at https://youtu.be/p7X6x1sk0vI
